draft docs for web modeler api tutorial (#3910)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/apis-tools/web-modeler-api/tutorial.md

---
id: modeler-api-tutorial
title: Tutorial
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /apis-tools/web-modeler-api/tutorial

> description: "Step through an example to view your existing clients, create a client, view a particular client's details, and delete a client."

Reviewer: This is the Admin API description - oops!

---

In this tutorial, we'll step through examples to highlight the capabilities of the Web Modeler API, such as creating and deleting a file.

## Prerequisites

> - If you haven't done so already, [create a cluster](/components/react-components/create-cluster.md).

Reviewer: Do you actually need a cluster? I don't think you do anything with it in this tutorial, do you?

Reviewer: Reopening this - I need to see where a cluster would be necessary in this tutorial. Can you explain why you would need a cluster?

Author: Adjusted in latest commit 👍

- Upon cluster creation, create your first client by navigating to **Console > Organization > Administration API > Create new credentials**. Ensure you determine the scoped access for client credentials. For example, in this tutorial we will retrieve and delete a file. Ensure you check all the boxes for Web Modeler and Zeebe client scopes.

:::note
Make sure you keep the generated client credentials in a safe place. The **Client secret** will not be shown again. For your convenience, you can also download the client information to your computer.
:::

- In this tutorial, we utilize a JavaScript-written [GitHub repository](https://github.com/camunda/camunda-api-tutorials) to write and run requests. Clone this repo before getting started.
- Ensure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed as this will be used for methods that can be called by the CLI (outlined later in this guide). Run `npm install` to ensure you have updated dependencies.

## Getting started

> - A detailed API description can be found [here](https://modeler.cloud.camunda.io/swagger-ui/index.html) via Swagger. With a valid access token, this offers an interactive API experience against your Camunda 8 cluster.

Reviewer: > With a valid access token, this offers an interactive API experience against your Camunda 8 cluster.

I would reword this since this API isn't scoped for the cluster level.

  method: "POST",
  url,
  headers: {
    Accept: "application/json",
    Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
  },
  data: {
    fileName: fileName,
  },
};
```

7. Call the clients' endpoint, process the results from the API call, emit the clients to output, and emit an error message from the server if necessary:

```javascript
try {
  const response = await axios(options);
  const newFile = response.data;

  console.log(`Client added! Name: ${newFile.name}. ID: ${newFile.projectId}.`);
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message);
}
```

8. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler create` to create your file.

:::note
This `create` command is connected to the `createFile` function at the bottom of the `modeler.js` file, and executed by the `cli.js` file. While we create and delete a file in this tutorial, you may add additional arguments depending on the API calls you would like to make.
:::

If you have a file matching your file ID, the `Name: {name}; ID: {id} ` will now output. If you have an invalid API name or action name, or no arguments provided, or improper/insufficient credentials configured, an error message will output as outlined in the `cli.js` file.

> ## DELETE a client
> 
> To delete a client, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## DELETE a file

To delete a file, take the following steps:
```

---
id: modeler-api-tutorial
title: Tutorial
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /apis-tools/web-modeler-api/tutorial
description: "Step through an example to create a new project, add a collaborator, view project details, and delete a project using the Web Modeler API."
---

In this tutorial, we'll step through examples to highlight the capabilities of the Web Modeler API, such as creating a new project, adding a collaborator to a project, viewing the details of a project, and deleting a project.

## Prerequisites

- If you haven't done so already, [create a cluster](/components/react-components/create-cluster.md).

> - Upon cluster creation, create your first client by navigating to **Console > Organization > Administration API > Create new credentials**. Ensure you determine the scoped access for client credentials. For example, in this tutorial we will create a project, add a collaborator, and delete a project. Ensure you check all the boxes for Web Modeler and Zeebe client scopes.

Reviewer: Does this tutorial really require Zeebe client scopes?

Author: Adjusted in latest commit 👍

Examine the existing `.env.example` file for an example of how your `.env` file should look upon completion. Do not place your credentials in the `.env.example` file, as this example file is not protected by the `.gitignore`.

:::note

In this tutorial, we will execute arguments to create a project, add a collaborator, and delete a project. You can examine the framework for processing these arguments in the `cli.js` file before getting started.

:::

## Create a new project (POST) and add a collaborator (PUT)

First, let's script an API call to create a new project.

To do this, take the following steps:

1. In the file named `modeler.js`, outline the authentication and authorization configuration in the first few lines. This will pull in your `.env` variables to obtain an access token before making any API calls:

```javascript
const authorizationConfiguration = {
  clientId: process.env.MODELER_CLIENT_ID,
  clientSecret: process.env.MODELER_CLIENT_SECRET,
  audience: process.env.MODELER_AUDIENCE,
};
```

> 2. Examine the function `async function createProject([projectName, adminEmail])` below this configuration. This is where you will script out your API call, defining a project name and the admin's email.

Reviewer: This might be a nitpick, but I assumed the admin email had something to do with the administration API. After reading through the tutorial and looking at Swagger, I realized this is the project admin.

Author: I adjusted the wording a bit, but let me know if this doesn't resolve your concern.

> 3. Within the function, you must first apply an access token for this request, so your function should now look like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Within the function, you must first generate an access token for this request, so your function should now look like the following:
```

non-blocking nit, this feels like a more accurate verb to me because we aren't applying the token to anything until a few more steps.

Author: Adjusted in latest commit 👍

```javascript
async function createProject([projectName, adminEmail]) {
  const accessToken = await getAccessToken(authorizationConfiguration);
}
```

> 4. Using your generated client credentials from [prerequisites](#prerequisites), capture your Web Modeler base URL beneath your call for an access token by defining `ModelerBaseUrl`:
> 
> ```javascript
> const ModelerApiUrl = process.env.MODELER_BASE_URL;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Using your generated client credentials from [prerequisites](#prerequisites), capture your Web Modeler base URL beneath your call for an access token by defining `modelerApiUrl`:

```javascript
const modelerApiUrl = process.env.MODELER_BASE_URL;
```

this is what we named it in the companion repo.

Author: Adjusted in latest commit 👍

11. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler create` to create your project.

:::note
This `create` command is connected to the `createProject` function at the bottom of the `modeler.js` file, and executed by the `cli.js` file. While we create a project in this tutorial, you may add additional arguments depending on the API calls you would like to make.
:::

## View project details (GET)

To view project details, take the following steps:

1. Outline your function, similar to the steps above:

```javascript
async function viewProject([projectId]) {
  const accessToken = await getAccessToken(authorizationConfiguration);
  const modelerApiUrl = process.env.MODELER_BASE_URL;
  const url = `${modelerApiUrl}/projects/${projectId}`;
}
```

2. Configure the API call using the GET method:

```javascript
const options = {
  method: "GET",
  url,
  headers: {
    Accept: "application/json",
    Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
  },
};
```

3. Process the results from the API call. For example:

```javascript
try {
  const response = await axios(options);
  const project = response.data;

  console.log("Project:", project);
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message);
}
```

> 4. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler view <project ID>`, where `<project ID>` is where you can paste the ID of the project you would like to view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler view <project ID>`, where `<project ID>` is the ID output by the command to create a project.
```

We can give them a more specific ID, so they aren't wondering where to get one.

## Delete a project

To delete a project, take the following steps:

1. Outline your function, similar to the steps above:

```javascript
async function deleteProject([projectId]) {
  const accessToken = await getAccessToken(authorizationConfiguration);
  const modelerApiUrl = process.env.MODELER_BASE_URL;
  const url = `${modelerApiUrl}/projects/${projectId}`;
```

2. Configure the API call using the DELETE method:

```javascript
const options = {
  method: "DELETE",
  url,
  headers: {
    Accept: "application/json",
    Authorization: `Bearer ${accessToken}`,
  },
};
```

3. Process the results from the API call. For example:

```javascript
try {
  const response = await axios(options);

  if (response.status === 204) {
    console.log(`Project ${projectId} was deleted!`);
  } else {
    console.error("Unable to delete project!");
  }
} catch (error) {
  console.error(error.message);
}
```

> 4. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler delete <project ID>`, where `<project ID>` is where you can paste the ID of the project you would like to delete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In your terminal, run `npm run cli modeler delete <project ID>`, where `<project ID>` is the ID output by the command to create a project.
```

Author: Resolved in latest commit 👍
